###Section 1.1 
---

#### 1
 Which of these sentences are propositions? What are the truth values of those that are propositions?  
a) Boston is the capital of Massachusetts.  
b) Miami is the capital of Florida.  
c) 2 + 3 = 5.  
d) 5 + 7 = 10.  
e) x + 2 = 11.  
f) Answer this question.

####Solution

a->T  
b->F  
c->T  
d->F

#### 2
Which of these are propositions?What are the truth values of those that are propositions?  
a) Do not pass go.  
b) What time is it?  
c) There are no black flies in Maine.  
d) 4 + x = 5.  
e) The moon is made of green cheese.  
f ) 2n ≥ 100.

####Solution

c->F  
e->F

#### 3
What is the negation of each of these propositions?  
a) Mei has an MP3 player.  
b) There is no pollution in New Jersey.  
c) 2 + 1 = 3.  
d) The summer in Maine is hot and sunny.

####Solution

a) Mei does not have an MP3 player.  
b) It's not the case that there is no pollution in New Jersey.  
c) 2 + 1 != 3.  
d) It's not the case that the summer is Maine is hot and sunny.

#### 4
What is the negation of each of these propositions?  
a) Jennifer and Teja are friends.  
b) There are 13 items in a baker’s dozen.  
c) Abby sent more than 100 text messages every day.  
d) 121 is a perfect square.  

####Solution

a) Jennifer and Teja are `not` friends.  
b) `It's not the case` that there are 13 items in a baker's dozen.  
c) Abby sent `not more than` 100 text messages every day.  
d) 121 `is not` a perfect square.

#### 5
What is the negation of each of these propositions?  
a) Steve has more than 100 GB free disk space on his laptop.  
b) Zach blocks e-mails and texts from Jennifer.  
c) 7 · 11 · 13 = 999.  
d) Diane rode her bicycle 100 miles on Sunday 

#### Solution 

a) Steve doesn't have more than 100 GB free disk space on is lapton.  
b) Zack doesn't block e-mails and texts from Jennifer.  
c) 7 * 11 * 13 != 999   
d) It's not the case that Diane rode her bicycle 100 miles on Sunday.

#### 6
Suppose that Smartphone A has 256MB RAM and 32GB ROM, and the resolution of its camera is 8 MP; Smartphone B has 288 MB RAM and 64 GB ROM, and the resolution of its camera is 4 MP; and Smartphone C has 128 MB RAM and 32 GB ROM, and the resolution of its camera is 5 MP. Determine the truth value of each of these propositions.  
a) Smartphone B has the most RAM of these three smartphones.  
b) Smartphone C has more ROM or a higher resolution camera than Smartphone B.  
c) Smartphone B has more RAM, more ROM, and a higher resolution camera than Smartphone A.    
d) If Smartphone B has more RAM and more ROM than Smartphone C, then it also has a higher resolution camera.  
e) Smartphone A has more RAM than Smartphone B if and only if Smartphone B has more RAM than Smartphone A.

#### Solution 

|Proposition index | truth value |  
|:----------------:|:-----------:|  
|  a  | T |  
|  b  | F |  
|  c  | F |  
|  d  | F |  
|  e  | F |

#### 7
Suppose that during the most recent fiscal year, the annual
revenue of `Acme Computer` was 138 billion dollars
and its net profit was 8 billion dollars, the annual revenue
of `Nadir Software` was 87 billion dollars and its net profit was 5 billion dollars, and the annual revenue of `Quixote Media` was 111 billion dollars and its net profit was 13 billion dollars. Determine the truth value of each of
these propositions for the most recent fiscal year.  
a) Quixote Media had the largest annual revenue.  
b) Nadir Software had the lowest net profit and Acme
Computer had the largest annual revenue.  
c) Acme Computer had the largest net profit or Quixote
Media had the largest net profit.  
d) If Quixote Media had the smallest net profit, then
Acme Computer had the largest annual revenue.  
e) Nadir Software had the smallest net profit if and only
if Acme Computer had the largest annual revenue.

#### Solution

|Proposition index | truth value |  
|:----------------:|:-----------:|  
|  a  | F |  
|  b  | T |  
|  c  | T |  
|  d  | T |  
|  e  | F |

#### 8 

Let p and q be the propositions  
	p : I bought a lottery ticket this week.  
	q : I won the million dollar jackpot.  
Express each of these propositions as an English sentence.  
a) ¬p   
b) p ∨ q   
c) p → q  
d) p ∧ q   
e) p ↔ q    
f) ¬p →¬q  
g) ¬p ∧¬q   
h) ¬p ∨ (p ∧ q)

#### Solution

a) I didn't buy a lottery ticket this week.  
b) I bought a bottery ticket this week, or I won the million dollar jackpot.  
c) I bought a bottery ticket this week, then I won the million dollar jackpot.  
d) I bought a bottery ticket this week, and I won the million dollar jackpot.  
e) I bought a bottery ticket this week if and only if I won the million dollar jackpot.  
f) If I didn't buy a lottery ticket this week, then I didn't won the million dollar jackpot.  
g) I didn't buy a lottery ticket this week, and I didn't won the million dollar jackpot.  
h) I didn't buy a lottery ticket this week, or I bought a lottery this week and I won the million dollar jackpot.

#### 9

Let p and q be the propositions “Swimming at the New
Jersey shore is allowed” and “Sharks have been spotted
near the shore,” respectively. Express each of these compound
propositions as an English sentence.  
a) ¬q  
b) p ∧ q  
c) ¬p ∨ q  
d) p →¬q   
e) ¬q → p   
f) ¬p →¬q  
g) p ↔¬q  
h) ¬p ∧ (p∨ ¬q) 

#### Solution

a) 







| Tables        | Are           | Cool  |  
| ------------- |:-------------:| -----:|  
| col 3 is      | right-aligned | $1600 |  
| col 2 is      | centered      |   $12 |  
| zebra stripes | are neat      |    $1 |